## Stereo Lithography Printer (SRM-20)

It is a form of 3D printing technology used for creating models, prototypes, patterns, and production parts in a layer by layer fashion using photochemical processes by which light causes chemical monomers to link together to form polymers. Stereolithography can be used to create things such as prototypes for products in developing computer hardware, as well as in many other applications.

Stereolithography is an additive manufacturing process that, in its most common form, works by focusing an ultraviolet (UV) laser on a photopolymer resin.With the help of computer aided manufacturing or computer-aided design software (like KiCad in our case) , the UV laser is used to draw a pre-programmed design or shape on to the surface of the photopolymer. Photopolymers are sensitive to ultraviolet light, so the resin is photo chemically solidified and forms a single layer of the desired 3D object.Then, the build platform lowers one layer and a blade recoats the top of the tank with resin. This process is repeated for each layer of the design until the 3D object is complete. Completed parts must be washed with a solvent to clean wet resin off their surfaces.


as the print platform lowers itself into the resin glass tank, an ultraviolet laser light, from underneath the see-through tank, shines on it. (For this reason, SLA is sometimes called the laser 3D-printing technology.) Exposed to the laser light, the resin cures, solidifies and sticks to the platform. As more resin is exposed to the laser light, the pattern is created and joins the layer above. As more and more layers are being created, the build platform slowly -- very slowly -- moves upward, finally pulling the entire object out of the tank as the print process is finished.
The raw material used in this printer is Liquid resin. Printing is done through laser as the plastic used for fabrication solidifies when light is brought in contact at the required locations through programming.